# Auto-Encoders
An autoencoder is a type of artificial neural network used to learn efficient data codings in an unsupervised manner.[1] The aim of an autoencoder is to learn a representation (encoding) for a set of data, typically for dimensionality reduction, by training the network to ignore signal “noise”. Along with the reduction side, a reconstructing side is learnt, where the autoencoder tries to generate from the reduced encoding a representation as close as possible to its original input, hence its name. Several variants exist to the basic model, with the aim of forcing the learned representations of the input to assume useful properties.[2] Examples are the regularized autoencoders (Sparse, Denoising and Contractive autoencoders), proven effective in learning representations for subsequent classification tasks,[3] and Variational autoencoders, with their recent applications as generative models.[4] Autoencoders are effectively used for solving many applied problems, from face recognition[5] to acquiring the semantic meaning of words.

In this project, we read build a Movie Recommendation System built using AutoEncoders.It was trained on MovieLens Dataset.It follows collaborative filtering method. The Collaborative Filtering Recommender is entirely based on the past behavior and not on the context. More specifically, it is based on the similarity in preferences, tastes and choices of two users. It analyses how similar the tastes of one user is to another and makes recommendations on the basis of that.

The dataset that I’m working with is MovieLens, one of the most common datasets that is available on the internet for building a Recommender System. The version of the dataset that I’m working with (1M) contains 1,000,209 anonymous ratings of approximately 3,900 movies made by 6,040 MovieLens users who joined MovieLens in 2000
